alhamdulillah Allah made it for us easy
to meet with our teachers and our
beloved brothers in
so alhamdulillah we have our beloved
brother known as big Durk Likewise, we
have our teacher Abu
Davis.
Likewise, we have Hassani.
Likewise, we have our beloved brother.
So, inshallah to tonight we'll be
discussing many topics concerning dawa.
So we ask Allahh to give us
a and to make us
sub to make us sincere or our action
sincerely for his sake. So now I start
with our teacher Hassani
go ahead.
Alhamdulillah.
It's a blessing that Allah subhana wa
ta'ala has allowed us to gather here in
this blessed city of Mecca. And for us,
mashallah, it was a wonderful
experience. Firstly, we went to Kuwait
and we had a seminar there with Shakali
with hundreds of brothers from all over
America and the UK and beyond.
Alhamdulillah. where the he taught
of
after and
after and then alhamdulillah we went to
Medina and then from Medina to Mecca to
perform may Allah accept it from us all.
>> Amen.
We have with us brothers, alhamdulillah,
from our beloved brothers. And I know
that some of them had questions with the
spread of the dawa, the Quran and the
sunnah with understanding of the of this
ummah, the understanding of the
companions. They had some questions. So
we felt that it would be beneficial
inshall to sit and discuss these things
for everyone else to benefit because
these may be questions that other people
also they have. So I know Abd you had a
question that you wanted to ask.
>> Alhamdulillah. Um like in the states
United States in the states we suffer a
lot from a misunderstanding of the
seller. We suffer a lot from that being
in prison all that time accepting the
dean in prison. I accepted the dean in
prison up under this understanding of
holding on to the Quran the sunnah and
the ways of the companion. And that's
the way I live now. But you go out now,
you have people misunderstanding that
and actually um seeing it as something
as a separate sect or you know frowning
against it like we own something
different than what they own or
misunderstand about what's going on
there. For the young brothers who coming
into the dean and really need to know
the proper way to practice Islam, you
know that this is the proper way to
practice. people who don't know what the
solid really stand for and what this
what the what actually is the
understanding of the solid then I asked
y'all
um two shakes to give a explanation so
they can clearly understand and hear
from y'all cuz y'all be the main names
when we say these things that people
look forward to or people identify with
the correct understanding what the
solution
>> [clears throat]
>> As far as the uh affair of the Salafia
is concerned and the path of the one of
the things that we should realize is the
path of Salafia is one that was drawn
out for us by the messenger of Allaham.
Our dean as our scholars have mentioned
is
that is to submit to Allah with in
oneness. Well,
and to be compliant in obedience to him
and that one is free of shik and his
people. That compliance revolves around
following the book of Allah and
following the sunnah of the messenger of
Allaham. That is the dean of Allahel.
Regardless of what anybody else wants to
say or wants to claim or any claims that
many make because claims are many. Um
but the dean of Allah is this following
Allah is submitting to Allah inhed.
Secondly being compliant in obedience to
him. Where and how do we and are we
compliant to Allahel? We're compliant by
following the Sunnah, the Quran and the
Sunnah. Whatever allahel calls us to in
the Quran, whatever the messenger
wasallam called us to in the sunnah.
Yeah. And we look at that, we understand
it and we follow it. So the path of the
question that must rise is where has
this path of the come from? And you know
we're familiar with the Quran and we're
familiar with the Sunnah, but the path
of the why are people even speaking
about it? Why is it even being referred
to as a way that should be followed? Of
course, that returns back to the same
principle that we mentioned that our
dean is a dean that revolves around
returning back to the Quran and to the
Sunnah. The Quran and the Sunnah point
and call to the path of the path of the
pious predecessors. First and foremost,
what is Salafia?
Salafia
and others from the scholars of the lo
and the language they mention return
back to
three letters in the Arabic language s
and in the Arabic language it refers to
it refers to that which has passed from
your forefathers and your predecessors.
And so the term
that
uh returns back to is a reference to the
predecessors. That is number one. Number
two, where in the Quran and where in the
Sunnah are we called to return back to
that? If we're saying that this has its
basis in the Quran and the Sunnah, where
is it in the Quran and the Sunnah? When
we look in the Quran, we see a number of
verses such as the statement of allahel
that whomsoever contends with the
messenger after the guidance has been
shown to him and follows a path other
than the path of the believers. We
should stop and reflect upon this
statement. Follows a path other than the
path of the believers
as
one of the scholars of the uh of hadith
and of the sunnah has mentioned in his
explanation of Bkari buttas summarized
version of Bkari which is one of the
sources of the prophetic traditions he
said that the the believers in this
verse is a reference to the companions
of the messenger of Wasallam and so
Allah asawel has mentioned that
whomsoever
contends with the messenger of Allah
that is he opposes what he has dead and
he follows a path other than the path of
the believers and the believers were the
companions of the messenger of Allaham.
We will leave him in the path that he
has chosen for himself and we will burn
him in and what an evil destination.
Another evidence in the Quran is the
statement of allahel for
If they believe, oh Muhammad, in the
likes of that which you believe in, then
they are guided.
If they turn away, then they will be at
different split and difference and will
not be upon the truth.
The scholars they mention that there is
a benefit that is present within this
verse and that is that allahel mentions
This in the Arabic language is known as
the j which is a pronoun for a plural
just like we would say he and them. Here
Allah didn't say or you and they. Allah
didn't say if they believe in what you
singular which would be a reference to
Muhammad wasallam alone. Rather allahel
said if they believe in that which you
believe in to which is a plural you all
then they are guided and so here allahel
of course the verse was revealed upon
Muhammad wasallam but he had his
companions with him and so allahel in
the verse said if they believe in that
which you all believe in you Muhammad
and your companions
then they're guided but if they turn
away then they will continue to be split
and differing
as long as they turn away. And that is
something that we see right now present
within the um those who have turned away
from the path of the prophetam, the path
of his companions.
>> We see the splitting and this differing
that is manifest and that has taken
place. And so uh uh uh the call of is to
return back to the way the companions.
What were they upon? They were the
students of the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam. Who better to
understand the dean of Allah than Abu
Bakr [clears throat]
Ali?
Who better to understand the dean of
Allahel than Abdullahbar Abdahb Abbas
Abdahbd?
Who better to return our understanding
back to than the likes of Abu and the
likes of Malik and Abdah. All of these
were students of the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam. The prophet
wasallam taught them and they went on to
convey that to the rest of the um so in
essence this is the path of the path
that returns us back to the original
understanding of the dean of allahel.
If you have any questions
>> when any of us are talking, interject
and ask
>> if you think that there's some clarity
or
>> further clarification maybe for
something that you know for the people
>> I had a question uh
what were explicitly some of those
doubts inside the prison that you heard
about if you don't mind me asking
>> it wasn't so much as a doubt It was so
much an example
>> of what brothers was calling themselves
Copi and they're doing
>> you know they was kind of too hard on
the people. So that made people look at
Sali like oh y'all too hard y'all too
strict. We can't you know we can't
breathe type of thing. So you know
brother Yeah. Brother T get you hotter.
And then the next day they saying roll
up your pants, you [laughter] know, grow
your beard. You know, they looking at
all the outward things and they not
really putting the true knowledge
[snorts] in what your mind can raise and
they can start rolling up. They can
start doing these things right here. So
they come in and people be like, "Oh, I
ain't with them." And they'll start
splitting up a community.
>> What did you say though? Remember you
said you came home when you started, you
know, mixing with other brothers. You've
seen mash a different outlook
>> compared to what you saw in the prison.
>> Right. So even then cuz you know most of
the gray I got come from prison
[laughter] dealing with dealing with
brothers up in there you know trying to
say no this ain't the way we are. We're
like this but you know so many other
people come behind me and they kind of
shake up things. But when I come out
here and I run into brothers like y'all
and I said this is it. [laughter]
There you go. Right here.
>> You know, they mentioning y'all names in
there, but they don't got y'all
character. They don't they they missing
that, you know, that
>> that um that adaptab
softness.
They think they think that shake out
here, you know, beating them down with a
bat. [laughter]
This is the way it be. Don't do this.
But then they ever meet you, they'll
come to find out, you know.
>> Subhan Allah. So to cut you just remind
us I'm sorry for speaking for the mash
my teachers you know remind us of the
time of
and subh in Mecca where everything
started subhan allah and they said
when he came from Yemen and
told him there's a man here be aware of
him if you you're going to see him
praying next to thea and he's going to
cause division between you and your
family. This man is dangerous. So,
so subhan Allah. So, look, when he saw
the messenger of Allah's actions, he he
really liked the
he said they scared me so much I had to
put words in my ears.
>> I didn't want to listen to him. Then I
said to myself,
he said, "Well, to me, I'm an Arab man.
I know what is poem and what is not poem
and what is magic and what is not
magic." So he removed the the the walls
and he started listening to.
So the mentioned the prophet wasallam
what he used to do he is to make sure
his action oppose what the Arab pagans
were saying about him.
>> Subhan Allah. Yeah.
>> So the this very important
>> Yeah. I think it's important as well to
understand that
>> no doubt Abraim mentioned you know
alhamdulillah the Quran and the Sunnah
with the understanding of the companions
is the only true way
>> because we all agree there's various
interpretations and understandings out
there upon innovation and misguidance.
But the companions of the messenger of
Allah sallallahu alaihi wasallam they
understood the Quran and the sunnah in
the way that it should be understood
with regards to the implementation
especially in prison you know the
brothers they may have correct imple
information but they don't have the
scholars to direct them how to implement
it and that's why
>> when you look at the students of
knowledge sitting with the scholars is
important and that takes us to another
issue who are role models you know our
role models are the prophet ETS and the
messengers after them the companions
after them the
the imams of the religion the righteous
and the scholars the scholars of every
time every era and if you look at the
scholars alhamdulillah you see the
wisdom in their implementation and how
they address things and how they tackle
things and that's why it's important
even for brothers to travel to visit the
scholars that's one this trip is a
blessing
>> you know and I always say it
>> this trip here and these duat whether
it's with the scholars of Saudi Arabia
or the scholars of Kuwait or any other
land. We encourage everyone to, you
know, utilize these opportunities. Why?
Because it's for everyone. It's not
restricted to a mid just to sit with the
mash. And we were in he would not sit
down until everyone ate,
>> you know,
and sitting with the brothers and you
see the wisdom and you see the
implementation. And I think that's
important as well because people will
utilize what they perceive to be
shortcomings to demonize the truth. You
know, no,
>> I was just sorry to cut you off, but I
remember the first time I I I met Shik
Abd Abbas Alabad. This was like my first
time meeting a scholar. And I was
sitting in Medina like 20 years ago. And
someone came and asked him a question
about a a Christian, a Muslim woman
converted to Islam while she was married
and her husband was still a caffa. So
they was like, you know, what should she
do? Should she continue to stay in a
marriage? I was new to the religion. And
I was like, man, Allah says, in my mind,
I say, Allah says in the Quran, he got a
divorce and that's what I'm saying. And
then when I heard the scholar, like the
shake said,
>> of course, in Islam, it's not allowed
for a Muslim woman to be married to a
caffa. He said, but I'm afraid if you go
back and tell her that that her love for
this her husband might make her give up
Islam and stay with him. So it's a
greater evil, of course, if she leave
Islam but stand with him is a less sin.
And that's why I was like, man, we got
to really
>> learn what the verses mean, implement
it. You know what I mean? I was going to
ask you.
>> Now, you explain to us what is now what
are the sources the
>> you know what are the sources of
>> for us to go back to. So as far as the
sources of saf is concerned are
concerned.
Then at the head of the sources is the
book and the sunnah number one. The book
of allahel
the sunnah of the messenger sallallahu
alaihi wasallam the authentic sunnah of
the messenger of Allah sallallahu alaihi
wasallam. But of course those two
sources everybody claims them. One of
the the defining characteristics of the
path of Salafia is that those two
sources are understood by that which was
left and by the that which was [snorts]
taught by the companions of the
messenger.
We have some fantastic
amazing
classical works that gather the
statements of the companions concerning
the book of allahel that gather the
statements of the companions in that
gather the statements of the companions
in hadith and what they said about the
sunnah
>> for example in uh the uh and the
explanation of the Quran we do not only
have the Quran everybody's familiar with
but We have the Quran explained by the
companions of the messenger of Allah
with chains of narration going back to
those companions. So we can trace a
chain of transmission going back to the
companions that they said this verse
means this. The messenger wasallam told
us about this verse such and such with
the chain with a book with a book such
as of
Imabi or the Ibhatim
which were books that bring the
statements of the companions of the
prophetam about not only what the
messenger said but what the Quran means
what those verses mean and these are
large compendiums that we have
alhamdulillah they're present you know
they exist and most of the students will
have these books with them. As far as
the sunnah is concerned, then we have
again the sunnah being explained by the
companions of the messenger of Allaham.
>> So we have the likes of al- mus ofba
or musdi.
These are classical works that gather
what the companion said first and
foremost. Gather the sunnah and then
gather what the companion said about
those hadith. What the companion said
about those narrations, what the
companion said about how the prophet
implemented it or what is to be
understood from it. Uh and so when we're
looking then at uh the book and the
sunnah there are many who claim that
what we follow the book and the sunnah
but the distinguishing characteristic
with between and the difference between
them and the people who follow the path
of is that they follow the path of based
upon returning back to what the
companions held. There's a beautiful
piece of advice that I bali he mentioned
in his book. One of the great imams of
the sunnah of the of classical uh the
classical era of knowledge and wisdom
and understanding within the um he said
he said look may Allah show you mercy
uh to the speech of everyone who you
hear speaking in your time. He said,
he said, "Do not be hasty." He said,
he said, "Look to anyone who you hear
speaking in your time and not hasten
into anything from it until you first
ask. Is this something that the
companions of the messenger of Allah
used to say?" Somebody saying listen
this is the way and we got to do this
and first question that anybody should
have whe if it is a belief belief system
or it is an action act of worship first
thing that we should ask is no
disrespect my brother but was this what
the companions were upon is this what
they used to believe because that is
what allahel has laid down in the book
of Allah so he said if you find
something from them cling on to it don't
go past it for anything don't choose
anything over and those fall into the
fire. And so the earlier scholars they
would advise with this path of returning
back to what the companions said. So if
we look at it we see that allahel
advises us to go back to the companions
that the prophet wasallam advised to go
back to the companions. Why where do we
have the advice of the prophetam to go
back to the companions?
[laughter]
The prophetam said on an occasion he
gave a sermon
uh and he the companion mentioned
I shed tears when the prophet spoke of
this sermon and the heart tremor. They
said is it is as though this is a going
away sermon. So he must adise said cling
cling to my
and the [snorts] sunnah of the caves
after me and those who follow me my
successor from the companions cling to
my sunnah and their sunnah he said cling
to it and uh and hold on to it with your
monities. So here the prophetam advis us
to cling to their path. We have it in
the Quran. We have it in the sunnah and
we have it from them as well
>> that they themselves advised within. So
the sources then of the book of Allah,
the sunnah of the messenger of Allah,
the of the of this um consensus what
they united upon and the statement of
many of the scholars throughout time who
have unanimously said that you should
return back that the um should return
back to the understanding of the
companions and that which they were
upon.
highlighting the importance of knowledge
especially in this day and age because
there are many podcasts
many videos on social media and in order
to navigate you know in today's climate
we have to have some knowledge take time
to learn as mentioned all of us all of
our statements all of our actions are
weighed in accordance to the Quran and
the sunnah and the understanding of the
companions and I think that's one of the
problems that people have with people
who adhere to the path of the is that if
we see a mistake we try and advise them
in the best way because the truth is
above all of us and if we go back to the
of the primary objectives of Islamic law
the first is preservation of the
religion
>> and one of the means is
if if I make a mistake and it opposes
what's in the Quran and the sunnah with
understanding of the companions and
it'sffect affecting people or
potentially people could be misguided.
Someone has to clarify the error in that
statement to preserve. It's like if we
had a lake or we had a well,
alhamdulillah the w the water it was
pure
and it was sweet but somebody added some
impurity. We'd have to remove that
impurity so people don't get poisoned.
And that's the importance of you know
trying to clarify what is correct to the
best of our ability. And it doesn't
matter the person could be the closest
of the closest of the people to you. You
know, we have to try and educate them in
the best way possible. And I think
that's one of the issues that people
have with people that try and adhere to
the Quran and the Sunnah with the
understanding of the Sabbath. They don't
want to be corrected. You know, if a
person has fame or they have wealth, you
know, as you know, egos, they give
presence to those things sadly on
occasions rather than submitting to the
truth. And the he mentioned at the
beginning what's Islam
to submit and to surrender to Allah with
and
we have many examples prophets and
messengers how they submitted to
Allahhanaa one of the things that we're
facing the challenges all over the world
is that people are embracing Islam but
they want to try and bring their
understanding with them of Islam instead
of submitting
We find the verse in the Quran, enter
into Islam wholeheartedly in totality.
You know, don't try and bring your
baggage through the door.
>> We see that especially in America, you
hear people saying, for example, hip-hop
is our cultures, the black people, so we
can mix it in the religion of Islam and
we can hate us, you know, they come on
my page and they say these things.
>> What advice would you give these people?
>> When they kind of say this is our
culture, that's the Arab culture.
>> Yeah.
Firstly, firstly I was going to mention
something to go back to to go to brother
you know Islam when the messenger of
sent
to Yemen
you're going to you're going to go to
people of the book let the first you
call them to
so ga you need
you need like there's priorities yet so
the brothers that telling a a new revert
to put up his child above his uncle next
day become Muslim. It's not the is you
know even like he gave a nice benefit
concerning
there's in Islam there's which is
subhan allah so translated so yes
[laughter]
so in Islam Islam pays a great attention
to bringing about goodness and removing
away or away evil so again we're in
and the Ka the way it is now. This is
not how Ibraim build the Kaa. It was
different. But didn't want to rebuild it
again because he said
because your people are new in Islam. So
they would say this man came to judge
everything even the house that built
look. Subhan Allah. So that's why
there's a nice book by
likewise about
how to give da you know you have to know
how to give da you have to you know
subhan Allah. So you know about Arab
culture, Islam is Arab culture. This is
self-refuted statement. Why? If it was
Arab culture, how come the Arab pagans
rejected it?
>> And also we had accepted it.
>> Look, you know they say the Arab
culture, but if it's an Arab culture,
the Arab pagans were the first people to
fight against it. So it was the culture,
the culture to be pagans. And like I
said to you, the one I want when I talk
to you about if you want to go back to
our culture, our first because you know
even Algeria we have this we are the
barbar the Arabs came to us let's go
back to our forefather. So we asked them
which forefather should we go back to
why we have to only go back to the
forefather just 5 years before Islam.
What about the first one? Adam
>> Adam was a Muslim. So let's go back to
Gree.
>> Yes.
>> Adam is the first one.
>> That's why I say Israelites when they
always talk about you know we're the
last tribe. I say what about he wasn't a
train.
So let's go back to our fourb
>> Adam was a Muslim show is is what you
said da is very important because in
America same with the UK you do have
people that sincere they really love
Islam but they have weakness they
drinking they still on the streets how
you give da to these type of individuals
>> I think it's important and that's an
excellent question because something
happened recently a podcaster there was
a brother I think he was from
Philadelphia
>> and he said, "I'm Muslim." And there was
a non-Muslim on the podcast and he said,
"Don't say that. Don't say you're a
Muslim because you don't really practice
the religion." And the brother,
alhamdulillah, he said, "No, I'm Muslim,
but I have some shortcomings." But it's
important to be able to respond to that
question. Like people who involved in
those type of lifestyles where you're
publicly disobeying Allahhana wa ta'ala,
>> they love Islam.
>> They love Islam, but they need to make
it clear. Like I advised one of the
brothers in Philadelphia, may Allah
guide us and him.
>> You're still involved in the rap
industry. And I said to him, the truth
is the truth. We can't change the
religion
>> for me or for you.
>> When people ask you these type of
things, you should say our examples
again are the prophets and the
messengers,
>> you know, after them the companions,
after them the scholars, the righteous
from this ummah. Me, I'm a Muslim.
That's my belief. I believe in Allah. I
believe in the messenger of Allah
sallallahu alaihi wasallam but I have
shortcomings
make may Allah subhanaa tala forgive me
and pardon me and may he rid me of these
things don't justify it because the
danger is now there's a difference if a
person has a shortcoming and they
recognize it inshall we hope that they
will repent from it
>> but if you start justifying it now or
there's difference of opinion about this
and about that there's not a difference
of opinion about glorifying drugs and
fornication
and killing there's no differing about
that whatsoever. So just say I have
shortcomings recognize those
shortcomings and ask Allahhana wa tala
to give you success to repent him with a
sincere repentance. I think that's very
important and even for the youth
alhamdulillah you're showing the youth
these are the examples
>> you know these are the people that you
should look up to the scholars not me
you know I have my own struggles I have
my own I have my own battles and even
that's why I say even when brothers are
falling short they should still go to
the masid you know and pray they should
still go and sit with the scholars
because just from from the angle of
somebody who's famous or wealthy or
whatever and they see them going to the
lesson
for example, one of the senior scholars
at this time the youth are going to be
like mashallah I need to be in those
lessons if we don't have that mentality
the youth are going to follow the
streamers they're going to follow the
athletes and other than them and that's
one of the problems that we have today
>> you know people do not know who our role
models are and they think that as
Muslims we don't have role models wah we
have many role models but we're just not
looking in the right place
>> yeah but you know
what what's
happen
>> for memory runs back. Is it okay if we
ask you about how you embraced or
accepted?
>> Yeah, that's a nice story.
>> I got one more question. [laughter]
>> Yeah, go.
>> No, it's a nice story as well. That's
important to get on.
>> Can we get that one on the [snorts] next
one? But
>> what's important? You know, in America,
Muslims is growing rapidly in America.
People take their shahada on a daily. I
mean, personally, people come up to me,
I'm interested in Islam. I want to take
my shahada.
>> You know, we get a shahadas, but there's
no followup. And this is big in America
from the mids, from the imams, different
things like that. When we leave these
youngsters out there and they still
toring in the street and they still
trying to find their way because it's
not really a Islamic culture that'll
grab hold to them.
>> You mentioned something earlier today in
which we try to teach all new jihad and
that's
>> tohed. But couldn't y'all explain what
to Heidi is and importance of to heed
and I'm learning to heat because this is
the foundation that I'm
>> I mean to be honest with you that is the
uh the foundation of the call of every
every single one of the prophets and the
messengers. Every prophet and messenger
that was ever sent was sent to
established. Tohed uh is the belief uh
in the oneness of allahel. And the
scholars categorize it into three main
categories. Then the first of them uh
the of Allah as it relates to the a of
that is uh the oneness of Allah as it
relates to our belief in Allah being the
lord of the heavens and the earth that
Allah is the creator the sustainer and
the possessor of everything in the
heavens and the earth the of Allah and
secondly as it relates to the names and
attributes of Allah that we understand
Allah has unique names and attributes we
understand them we
>> [clears throat]
>> uh connect ourselves to them because
this is part of us understanding who
we're worshiping. Number three, that we
worship only Allah alone that the
prophets and the messengers they all
came with the same message and
would worship Allah and stay away from
the false deities. So the call of the
prophets and the messengers all revolved
around this. And this is what made the
believers the powerhouses that they
were. And when they were followers of
the followers of the prophets, followers
of the messengers, they were who they
were because of this tohed in their
hearts. When they have that tohed in
their hearts, it becomes manifest upon
the limbs. And that manifestation upon
the limbs is what is going to be the
examples that we're talking about
returns back to people having this and
this oneness in their hearts and then
making it manifest upon the starts in
the heart and the prophetam he mentioned
indeed in the body there is a moral if
it is sound the whole of the body is
sound and if it is corrupt the whole of
the body is corrupt indeed it is the
heart anybody involved in whether it's
your street culture gang culture you
look at the way the prophets and the
messengers first and foremost what they
called to then look at what rectify the
companions of the prophetam
>> the companions of the prophetam were 90%
reverts
>> yes
>> if not more
>> other than the few that were born in
Islam towards the end of the life for
the prophet the bulk of the companions
they were reverts.
>> They were people who were either bedwin
Arabs or tribesmen or or or who embraced
Islam.
>> But it was what what was it that
rectified them? What rectified them was
thished
and this is what the prophet wasallam
started nurturing and cultivating those
companions upon
this there's a saying
a person came and asked our mother
the wife of the prophetam let me see
your Quran
because he held that her suras the way
that they were written had a different
order he believed that So she so she
said uh and clarified that look uh what
is it that you want with with my Quran?
Why do you want to see my Quran? So then
she went on to clarify the first of that
which was revealed from the Quran
because this individual was in was uh uh
engrossed in knowing or believing that
the ver the order of the verses were
different. So she went on to clarify and
just reboot the affair and and and set
the record straight. She said the first
of the things that were clarified or
that were revealed was the statement of
Allah
that when the horn is blown into
referring to the day of judgment
and so she clarified go she went on to
clarify saying if the first thing that
Allah revealed was don't drink alcohol
they would have said we're never going
to leave alcohol.
He said, she said if the first thing
that Allah revealed was don't fornicate,
they would have said we're never going
to do fornication. But allahel revealed
those type verses first that establish
the in the heart that established the
affair of returning back to Allahel in
the day of judgment that establish who
Allah is within them that rectify the
heart. When the heart is rectified, the
actions will
>> everything will be sorted out there on
after if the heart is rectified. So the
prophetam for the first 10 years at
least was concentrated upon nurturing
them upon connecting them to Allah to
their lord when they connected to Allah
everything there and after will fall in
place all I got to know is did Allah say
it
>> did Allah say did the prophetam say it
that's all I need to know that was the
characteristic and I'm sorry again I'm
going on but that was the characterist
when when the prophet am went to Isra
and was taken on a night journey from
from here
>> to Jerusalem
then up into the heavens and he went
through the heavens and came back
and he came and told the companions this
is what had happened this for them was
perfect for the kufur this was perfect
they never going to believe him so they
started to say you believe you hear what
he's saying now that he went from Makkah
to Jerusalem and back in one nightm and
it and it rocked some some some of them
>> a big number.
>> It was a big fit number
>> Abu Bakr Sadi. The reason he got the
name Sadik the one who bears witness and
attest to the truth because when he came
to when they came to Abu Bak
and and told him this is what he's
saying. He said
did the messenger actually say it?
They said yes.
He said well then I believe it is truth.
>> He said I believe in what is greater
than that and that is that he says
revelation comes through from above
seven heavens.
>> But look at this. This is the attitude
when he's saying
in essence in our time is it
>> is it authentic?
>> Is it authentic? Did the prophetam
actually say do it? That's all we need
to [applause] know.
>> Yeah.
And so slowly but surely the hearts of
the companions were nurtured based upon
their connection with Allah. They
believed in Allah. They believed in the
book of Allah. They believed in what the
messenger wasallam said and that was
sufficient. That is what we nurture the
youth the youngsters on. That will
change them.
>> You know Allah's name is attributes.
>> You know his name is attribute. You
connected to Allah subhana tala.
>> Will change them. You know, I was just
going to go back to our brother's
question about how to deal with the
people who trying to practice but now
and then they into we have the
can explain more about when he was
drinking
and they used to bring him
to bring him and used to implement
>> on him many times.
>> So one of the Sahabah said me Allah
curse you how many times you keep doing
it. Look to the prophetam. He said to
the he said do not aidan
>> against your brother
and know nothing except he loves Allah
and his messenger. That was im when a
man [clears throat] when one of the
Sahabah fell into a major sin and he
came to the prophet
and the messenger of
because Allah had not revealed to him
nothing. So after there was prayer,
prayer, he said where's the questioner?
He said, "Oh messenger of Allah, you
know, I fell into
I was with the woman alone. I done
everything except fornication."
So
the verses
he said the good deeds wipe away the
evil deeds. So, you evil man
when [snorts] he was responding to this
misguided
saying the Sahabah fell into major sins.
How can you follow them? And he said the
way of is not conditional that the way
of Allah does not fall into major sin.
However, if he does, he will not
continue in doing it or persist upon the
halam. He will make a tba. You will
repent to Allah. So we have a best
example of our prophet Muhammad how he
dealt with the sinners
>> with the with people that fell into
major sins or lesser sins and said go
away from me and mah you see to teach
our teachers mah they mix with the
>> and that's what is needed people
out there
[laughter]
>> had a relation with the brothers for
decades [clears throat] grown firmness
and gather us in paradise like he
gathered us in the
>> no that's what I remember
used to come to us in white city
>> blunt
>> blunt road I just come out prison that
time I just come out jail
>> 2005
>> and he and he was teaching us and he was
sitting with us and what happened
>> you remember the power cut [laughter]
off the candle and the way
>> he used candle light there was no light
building was no electricity
>> there was no electricity
Yeah. Subhan Allah. So they like I guess
our scholars and our teachers do not mix
with the young people. They do mix.
>> I mean what's your experience?
>> Yeah.
>> I mean with the brothers like I mean
what's your experience with the
brothers? Do you find that like I'm
saying the people that you benefit from
or you're in contact with. Do you find
like they're harsh and they chase people
away?
>> Allah preserve y not to break y'all back
but y wise mah with the youth. Y not
with the use with us. I'm 48.
I'm surprised how I said they send me
the phone bill. The [laughter] way I be
on the phone like
y wise and that's what's important man
because you got to be wise with the
people.
>> No, if you look like I said the way that
they address things and they deal with
things, they want good for the people. I
mean that's advice
that you want good for the one that
you're advising. We want all of our
brothers to be on the path to Jenna. We
don't want to lose anyone along the way,
>> but at the same time, but if you see
somebody going in the wrong direction,
if like I saw a brother trying to jump
out the window,
>> you know, sometime with force, right? It
doesn't mean that you want bad for them.
No, you want good for all of our
brothers. You want good for all of our
sisters. We want good for the um we want
to accept Islam and go to Jenna.
>> So, what about your brother? What about
your sister?
>> You know, we have to look at it at the
fact that Allahel has explained to us
the fact that Shan is our enemy. M
>> and we are in essence then from the army
that is fighting against shan and each
and every one of us is a part of that
that battalion. So when your brother
drops, your brother falls, you pick him
up.
>> Just like if we were all on the
battlefield, you wouldn't walk away and
leave him.
>> You know what I mean? Everybody's going
to we're going to as much as is humanly
possible, we're going to go back, pick
him up. If two, three of us have to
carry him, we'll carry him and get him
across the line, bring him to safety,
>> you know, haul his hand to safety cuz we
all are part of that same battalion. The
battalion that is in the conflict
against Shan that Allahel has mentioned.
How many places in the Quran is
being your clear enemy
>> and know so our our position with each
other should be just that and
the believer is the mirror of his
brother.
>> And so that means when he advises he
advise cuz he love him. He want to
[snorts] see him change. You want to see
him do better. If you adwise
because you love me then you want to see
that change. You want to see whatever it
is you know you're advising about
implemented. If my brother I see him
upon something I have to first and
foremost look at him the same way I
would look at myself. I ask myself look
I want to I'm trying to get to Jenna and
if I'm trying to get to Jenna I'm sure
that I'm sure that's where he where he's
trying to go. So whatever advice I give,
I give it based upon me wanting
that good
>> and and I think a lot of people don't
know that like what Abdul Hawk said like
the people in prison, they hear the
names but they don't see this side of
them.
>> You know what I mean? They don't see
that y'all patient with the people in
the vis.
>> So that's a good thing. Alhamdulillah. I
observe y'all.
Uh what is your advice to
[clears throat] the youth who take the
ro um streamers nowadays as role models?
We touched up on it in the in the haram
earlier but if you can share some
benefits regarding the youth you know
looking up to the new streamers that are
you know on screens and giving the wrong
advice to the youth. If you can just
touch up on that level. I mean with
regards to the youth look in the hadith
of the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam when he spoke about
uh
that the seven people that will be under
the shade of Allah on a day when there's
no shade except his shade from amongst
them
the young person the youth that grew up
worshiping Allah subhana wa ta'ala
>> you know among young people
alhamdulillah that we have many young
brothers, young sisters striving in
seeking knowledge, implementing that
knowledge, learning the religion, being
audreamers,
it's important that when streamers,
those who are Muslims from amongst them,
when they embrace Islam, they have to
learn like everybody else. You know,
they have to learn the religion. We
don't put them forward immediately to
you know start giving lectures and you
know participating in seminars or being
a reference point for the um if you look
at the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam
he mentioned the hadith of
the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
he said you're going to have people from
the people of the book muad was known
for his knowledge he was known for his
ability to disseminate this knowledge
and teach and to educate the prophet
sallallahu alaihi wasallam would choose
the those who knowledge from amongst the
companions to go out and fulfill these
responsibilities. So streamers, they're
like everyone else. Alhamdulillah, we
want them to accept Islam, but they have
to learn.
>> They have to learn the religion. They
have to, you know, implement the
religion correctly. We don't
automatically take them as an example or
someone to be followed. And I think
that's one of the mistakes that's being
made. Somebody embraces Islam
immediately, you know, they're looked at
as a and the youth, subhan Allah, you
have time is precious. Some of the they
used to say if only time could be
bought, we would go and find the people
that waste their time so we could buy it
from them. Because
by time, the whole of mankind is in a
state of lust.
>> And they say, "Look, subhan Allah, when
Allahh swears by anything from the
creation indicates and it shows the
importance of this affair,
>> right? Time how utilize it? Are you
going to utilize it for good or you
utilize it for evil?
>> Time you're going to utilize it try and
get to paradise or you going to use it
to do things that lead to the hellfire.
So time, subhan Allah, hours and hours
you could benefit yourself in worldly
affairs, learning about whatever
entrepreneurship, you know, how to
trade, education so that you could take
care of your families, which we need for
the youth and these are important
subjects as it relates to economics, but
also as it relates to ours, learning the
religion, memorizing the Quran, the
youth are the future of tomorrow, you
know, mashallah,
you know, I don't know, he might be a
bit older than me, I don't know,
When we're getting older, mas, it's you.
It's you guys. You You guys are the
future. And at the end of the days, you
you are going to carry the flag. But
carrying that flag is a responsibility.
You're not going to be able to do it if
you're raised on TikTok. And I I see
some of the youth and I can tell
immediately that they're raised by the
internet. They're not they're not raised
by the elders. They're not raised in
circles of knowledge
>> because of their character or used the
wasawis you know the whisperings that
they have or just the social awkwardness
or other than that or how they are you
know topics and that's why you know it's
come off the internet
utilize your time
>> you have another question
>> yeah
you don't tell your story
that want to hear [laughter]
this question then tell the
They got questions ask good questions.
Another important point especially again
in prison and in America we said talk he
then we set a suna
>> that's very important what sooner cuz a
lot of people have certain hadith and
say I'mma follow this
>> y'all follow something different father
>> what is the distinction between these
two of what sooner they should Oh,
[laughter]
I'll go after you.
>> [laughter]
>> as far as it the the sunnah
then uh of course the uh the the first
the first thing that we should
understand is that the Quran Allah has
made it clear that the sunnah is the
explanation for the Quran
[cough]
[clears throat]
this will get you for killing me
it's all good No, allahel. No, no, no.
This is good. It's over. It's all right.
It's all right.
>> It's exactly. No, no. It's been killing
me. This is the answer.
Now, allahel mentions that we reveal to
you the reminder that you may explain to
the people what was revealed to them.
So, the prophet mentioned, no, the
prophetam was the explanation of the
sunnah was the explanation of is the
explanation of the Quran.
Allah revealed the Quran to the
messenger of Allah that the messenger
may explain to the people what was
revealed to them. So whether we're
speaking about
the acts of worship or we're speaking
about beliefs
whatever the prophet wasallam explained
that is related to the Quran first and
foremost we couple that those hadith
with the book of Allah as well with
[snorts] the ayat and the book of Allah.
Secondly, we ensure that whatever it is
we're following of the sunnah that it is
authentic and that the prophetam
actually said it. And that is by
returning it back to authentic sources.
And you'll find that many of the people
who make claims that they're following
the sunnah but actually not following
the sunnah or on the path other than the
path of the Sahabah. Nine times out of
10 that which they're following is
either weak
or it has been misinterpreted with an
understanding other than the
understanding of the companions. So the
first thing that we I'll return back to
is a principle that some of the scholars
mention either uh either [snorts]
uh if you were if you are trying to
establish an evidence
or make a point then
that if you are trying to establish a
point then we need an evidence and if
you're bringing an evidence then we we
need authenticity.
Don't just bring tell me in the desert
supposed to be a hadith or apparently
it's something there's somewhere
one of the main characteristics that we
return back to is authenticity
that it is either from one of the
reputable authentic sources Bkari Muslim
or from the other well-known sources Abu
Dbaji
with the checking of the verified
scholars of hadith
the bonafide scholars of hadith who have
checked those hadith to make sure that
they're authentic. So we're looking when
we speaking about following the sunnah,
we're speaking about primarily
authenticity number one and that being
understood with the understanding of the
companions. [clears throat]
>> Yes, that's that's if I if I got the
point right.
>> Yes.
>> And even
said also the sunnah
that which is established upon the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
authenticity [snorts] from his
statements from his actions and his
approvals. So like for example from his
statements
oh young boy eat with you know say
bismillah before you eat in the name of
Allah eat what's in front of you and eat
with your right hand for example that's
a statement his actions he says
pray as you have seen me pray. So the
actions of the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam you know his approval something
happened during the time of the prophet
he approved it passive approval
>> you know so anything [snorts]
alhamdulillah that we find established
from the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam they implement it
he said and stick and cling to my sunnah
>> and that's why so many you know
alhamdulillah you know calling people to
Islam or implementing Islam it's
important that we implement the Quran
and the sunnah like the companions
as much as we can because when we're
talking about sunnah for example, I'm
saying yes, you have to follow the
sunnah of the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam but I'm eating and I'm drinking
with my left hand for example right or
you have to follow the sunnah of the
prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam but
you don't see the individual
implementing the sunnah or respecting
the sunnah you know it's contradictory
and that's one of the signs of the
people of truth you know hadith the
people of hadith that they implement the
sunnah of the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam that's why they were known as
the people of the Sunnah that they were
distinguished that the way that they
implemented the sunnah.